# Assignment 3 Solution 
## By Youssef Hamed
## UCID: 30142055

### Note: All of these commands need to be ran inside of a GitHub Codespace with minikube installed, and all of the given files put inside of said codespace. If you are using the same codespace as lab 8, make sure to cd into the assignment3 directory and put the files in there.


## Step 1 - Starting minikube

Run the following command as to set up a local kubernetes environment

```bash

minikube start

```

## Step 2 - enabling ingress

Run the following command as to enable ingress in the local kubernetes environment

```bash
 minikube addons enable ingress

```

## Step 3 - Creating the nginx-configmap

Run the following command as to set up the configmap for nginx's ingress object.

```bash

kubectl create -f nginx-configmap.yaml

```

## Step 4 - Creating the app-1 and app-2 deployments

Run the following commands as to create Deployment objects for app-1 and app-2 in order to manage and create app-1 and app-2 pods.

```bash

kubectl create -f app-1-dep.yaml
kubectl create -f app-2-dep.yaml

```

## Step 5 - Creating the app-1 and app-2 services

Run the following commands as to create services for app-1 and app-2 as to correctly manage the IPs for the pods created by the app-1 and app-2 deployments


```bash

kubectl create -f app-1-svc.yaml
kubectl create -f app-2-svc.yaml

```

## Step 6 - Creating the nginx deployment

Run the following command as to create the Deployment object for nginx as to manage the load between app1 and app2

```bash

kubectl create -f nginx-dep.yaml

```

## Step 7 - Creating the nginx service

Run the following command as to create a service for nginx as to manage the IPs of the different pods created by the nginx deployment.

```bash

kubectl create -f nginx-svc.yaml

```

## Step 8 - Creating the nginx ingress

Run the following command as to create an ingress object for nginx as to allow for easy communication through the IP address of the kubernetes environment as an API

```bash

kubectl create -f nginx-ingress.yaml

```

## Step 9 - Testing that the load balancer works as expected
Repeatedly run this command as to show that the load is balanced 50/50 between app-1 and app-2 as to show that the load balancer works as expected.


```bash
curl http://$(minikube ip)/ 

```


## Step 10 - Creating the app-1 and app-2 ingress

In order to use canary deployment, two more ingress services are needed as to override the default load balancer present in the nginx-configmap. These ingress objects for app1 and app2 ensure that 70% of traffic routed to "http://$(minikube ip)/" will go to app1 and the remaining 30% will go to app2.

```bash

kubectl create -f app-1-ingress.yaml
kubectl create -f app-2-ingress.yaml

```


## Step 11 - Testing that the canary deployment works as expected
Repeatedly run this command as to show that the load is 70/30 between app-1 and app-2 as to show that the canary deployment is working as expected.

```bash
curl http://$(minikube ip)/ 

```

## Step 12 - Clean up
Run this command to delete the kubernetes environment if needed

```bash
minikube delete
```
